# igme480-FinalProject

https://youtube.com/shorts/VE-GCs6N4to

For my final project, I was focusing on an AR public sculpture, similar to John Craig Freeman’s Border Memorial. My project would have a bunch of virtual gravestones that can be seen using a phone camera, and when the user clicks on a stone, information about that person would be displayed. Who they were, what they did, memories, stories, etc.
At the moment my project is more of a prototype, or blank template. I used location based AR.js and A-Frame to place shapes at specific coordinates. At the moment they just display around the current user’s position, instead of an exact location on the globe. This was mainly for testing purposes, and if this project is continued it would switch to exact locations those people either have died, or are buried. None of the gravestones have actual names, or information about those people. I’ve found myself a bit short on time and haven’t had the chance to research a bigger event for this project to be a message about or that I have an interest in, or the time to hard-code made up people. Every gravestone is currently labeled “First, LastName” and the information that shows up when they are clicked is all the same. For the moment I’m just using the browser alert function to create a popup with information for the boxes, but If I had time I would change that to be something else so it looks better. Maybe either bring the user to another website with that person’s information, or dynamically create/display another entity that shows all that information.

I struggled in the beginning with getting the AR to work. Or rather, it would show up if I tested it on my computer, but when I went to test it on my phone the shapes wouldn’t show up. It’s recommended to use chrome on an andriod, but I only have safari on iPhone. Turns out I had to make sure is had access to my exact location, and I also needed to reduce protections inside the browser. If I didn’t, the camera would work, but none of the shapes would show up.
I also considered importing a free 3D model from sketchFab, but decided to stick to using A-frame shapes at the moment since I have become more comfortable with them.
This project is not final, but I think what I managed to get done is a good starting point to become that bigger message and true public sculpture like the Border Memorial. When an event or something comes up that this could be used for, if there are exact coordinates for each gravestone, and information about each person is provided it would be fairly easy to change my portable demo, so that it only displays at the actual spot, and each grave is unique.
Once it is complete with entities placed on the exact locations, each with personal details about each person, I think some improvements would be some variation in the gravestones, since they’re pretty basic and exactly the same at the moment. I also think if there’s any videos or audio of the person, finding a way to include that in their information could be pretty cool and add to the weight that all the gravestones were real people with their own lives.
